STEAMPUNK CLOCK CALENDAR DESKTOP WIDGET

The Steampunk Clock Calendar is a clock/calendar/alarm utility via a steampunk design on your desktop. It can be resized and placed anywhere on your desktop. It uses minimal resources and helps give your desktop a dieselpunk make-over.

This VB6 version of the Steampunk Clock Calendar replaces the Yahoo/Konfabulator Widget version that is now obsolete.

This widgets UI functionality is 'complex' as I am using my complex template for this widget and widgets yet to come, it allows the user to interact with the graphical elements of the widget.

It can be increased in size, opacity/transparency may be set as to the users discretion. The widget can also be made to hide for a pre-determined period.

Right-click on the widget to display the function menu, mouse hover over the widget and press CTRL+mousewheel up/down to resize. It works well on Windows Vista, Win7/8/10 to Windows 11 as well as Linux and Mac os x using Wine. There will also be a separate version for Windows XP and ReactOS without high DPI awareness.

This version was initially developed on Windows 7/10 using 32 bit VisualBasic 6 as a FOSS project creating a WoW64 widget for the desktop.

It is open source to allow easy configuration, bug-fixing, enhancement and community contribution towards free-and-useful VB6 utilities that can be created by anyone. The first step was the creation of a template program to form the basis for the conversion of several desktop utilities or 'widgets'. This program is one of them. A future step is new VB6 widgets with more functionality and then hopefully, conversion of each to RADBasic/TwinBasic for future-proofing and 64bit-ness.

This utility is one of a set of steampunk and dieselpunk widgets that you can find here on Deviantart: https://www.deviantart.com/yereverluvinuncleber/gallery

I do hope you enjoy using this utility and others. Your own software enhancements and contributions will be gratefully received if you choose to contribute.

I wrote this tool as  heartily dislike the Windows operating system's limited choice of interface. In my opinion the user interface should be separated from the operating system functions allowing you to theme the GUI as you desire.

Fed up of the glossy cr@p that was shipped with the later versions of Windows I decided to make a series of
widgets that can replace certain system functions. Windows is shipped with a particularly rubbish clock so this clock was created to cater for a certain taste. It is steampunk (whatever that means) and unashamedly so. If you want to make any recommendations then please do.

The Pendulum is switched off by default, there is a good reason for this:

The graphics of a swinging pendulum in VB6 requires processor power. All the graphics here are CPU-powered, using Cairo, we have no access to the GPU. Some older single core or older
dual core machines may take exception to the pendulum and cause the use of a lot of cpu. The pendulum is pure math so it could be a shortcoming in this area, I intend to address this. 

If you have any problems please post your email queries to:
https://github.com/yereverluvinunclebert/Steampunk-clock-calendar-vb6/issues. 
Your post will go onto the list and I will endeavour to answer them as soon as I can.

The tool has two modes, Clock mode and Alarm mode. In clock mode the clock ticks, the calendar shows the date. In alarm mode you can set alarms and when the time has passed the alarm will sound.

Instructions for use:

By the left of the calendar are five brass toggles/keys. Pressing on each will have the following effect:

H Key - will show the first help canvas indicated by the brass number 1 on the top left of the wooden
         bar. clicking on the brassnumber 1 will select the next drop down help canvas.
         Clicking on the ring pull at the bottom will make the current canvas go away.

A Key - will activate the alarm mode and will also show the help canvas the first time
         it is pressed. Click on the ring pull at the bottom to make the canvas go away
         (f you do this note that it will still be in alarm mode). Clicking on the bell set will also cause
         the clock to go into alarm mode.

         When you have pressed the A key it will release the slider and you may move it to the right
         or left and change time. When you have selected the date/time you want then move the slider
         to the central position and click on the bell set. The alarm will set. You can set up to five alarms.

Alarm mode -  Normal operation is this: When the slider is released the further you move the slider from the centre position the more quickly the date/time will change.

When you are ready to set the alarm, click the bellset, two bells will sound and the alarm is set.

         * Please note that while the timepiece in Alarm Mode all clock functions are switched off *
         * Alarms will not sound whilst in alarm mode *

To cancel an alarm setting or viewing operation just click on the clock face.
To cancel a ringing alarm - just click on the bellset.

Each time you press the alarm bell to set an alarm, a pop-up will display indicating
which alarm you are going to set. Each time you press the A key, it will select the next alarm.
To the right of the clock there are from zero to five alarm toggles depending on how many alarms you
have previously set. If you click on the toggle it will display the date and time set for this alarm.
If you then click on the associated 'cash-register-style' pop-up it will allow you to delete this alarm.

L Key - gently quietens the whole clock: ticking, chimes, alarm sounds all reduced by 21db.

M Key - leaves all other sounds alone but turns off only the chimes. Another click turns the
         chimes back on again. You will see the bell clapper move to/from the bell set.

P Key - Turns off the pendulum. Another click turns it on again. Single-click on the pendulum itself
         also turns off the pendulum.

Crank - The hand crank is the master volume control. Crank it down to mute all sounds and crank
         it up to restore the sound back to the level it was prior to muting.

To the left of the digital clock is another brass toggle:

S Key - Raises the transparent screen logging the various controls you select. Because the screen is
         transparent the text may be hard to see when used on a dark desktop background. A new 'B' key
         will also appear on the right of the screen frame that allows you to raise/lower the back screen.
         This will allow you to read the text.

         The screen currently only displays clock/calendar operations but may do more in the future.

At the back-end there are more preferences that may be changed, all are documented by an associated description.

Report any bugs back and  will fix them.

CREDITS:

I have really tried to maintain the credits as the project has progressed. If I have made a mistake and left someone out then do forgive me. I will make amends if anyone points out my mistake in leaving someone out.

MicroSoft in the 90s - MS built good, lean and useful tools in the late 90s/early 2000s. Thanks MicroSoft for VB6.

Olaf Schmidt    - This tool was built using the RichClient RC6 Cairo wrapper for VB6. Specifically, the components using transparency. Thanks for the massive effort Olaf in creating Cairo counterparts for all VB6 native controls and giving us access to advanced features on controls such as transparency.

Shuja Ali @ codeguru for his settings.ini code.

ALLAPI.COM        For the registry reading code.

Rxbagain on codeguru for his Open File common dialog code without a dependent OCX http://forums.codeguru.com/member.php?92278-rxbagain

si_the_geek       for his special folder code

Elroy on VB forums for the balloon tooltips and his subclassing code

-oOo-

Harry Whitfield for his quality testing, brain stimulation and being an unwitting source of inspiration.


LICENCE AGREEMENTS:

Copyright © 2024 Dean Beedell

Using this program implies you have accepted the licence. The GPL licence applies to the code this software Is provided as-is, without any express or implied warranty. In no event will the
author be held liable for any damages arising from the use of this software. Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation is required.
2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original software.
3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public Licence as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the Licence, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public Licence for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public Licence along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301
USA

If you use this software in any way whatsoever then that implies acceptance of the licence. If you do not wish to comply with the licence terms then please remove the download, binary and source code from your systems immediately. 

You may use any of my own imagery in your own creations but commercially only with my permission. In all other non-commercial cases I require a credit to the original artist using my name or one of my pseudonyms and a link to my site. With regard to the commercial use of incorporated images, permission and a licence would need to be obtained from the original owner and creator, ie. me.